





CMM701 - Data Warehousing

Kaneel Dias
IIT ID: 20242001
RGU ID: 2506673


Task A - Designing a solution architecture

A.1 	System diagram







A.2 	Explanation
A.2.1	Data sources
These are the sources from which data points for the system originates
Historical data (CSV)
These are a set of CSV files containing historical meteorological data from the past few years. These files can be stored in cloud storage such as Amazon S3, Azure Blob storage etc.
Weather sensors
Thousands of internet-connected weather sensors are placed at various points in the country, collecting real-time weather data, and pushing them to the system over an HTTP REST API. Each sensor will make a single request every minute containing the current weather data.

A.2.2	Data ingestion layer (extraction layer)
This layer is responsible for ingesting data from the data sources and storing them in a scalable storage system which can be used by the rest of the system.
Apache Spark for one-time ingestion of historical data
This will only be done once, at the initial setup phase. An Apache Spark application will read the historical data files, clean the data, make any necessary modification to the structure, perform joins etc and push this data to the storage layer.
Apache flume for continuous ingestion
Apache Flume is configured to listen on a specific API endpoint for incoming requests from the weather sensors. Whenever a request is received, Apache Flume will store it in a temporary storage. Likewise it will collect data from all of the sensors across the island. In 1-minute intervals, it will then push all of this collected data to the storage layer (sink)
A.2.3	Data lake layer
This layer will store all the incoming data in a raw or semi-structured format, which can be utilized later to power the following components of the system. An HDFS file system will be used for this stage.
Parquet format files for historical data
The historical data ingested by Apache Spark will be stored in columnar storage as Parquet files.
Log files for continuous data
The continuous data generated by the weather sensors and processed by Flume will be stored in 1-minute interval batches as log files.
A.2.4	Data transformation layer
This layer will work on using the data from the data lake layer and transforming them into a structure/format which can be easily and quickly queried to obtain meaningful insights.
Apache Spark for one-time transformation of historical data
This will take the now pre-processed historical weather data and de-normalize it. It will also perform aggregation/summarization operations on it to be able to answer frequently performed queries (e.g. avg. rainfall in a given location over a month). This transformed data will be pushed to the database layer.
Apache Spark for continuous transformation of real-time data
This stage will read the log files generated by Apache Flume, containing real-time data from the weather sensors and add the relevant metadata (e.g. replacing location ID by location name), perform denormalization and other necessary transformation operations. This transformed data will be pushed to the database layer.

This can consist of multiple Spark applications, each performing different tasks. For example:
One application to read data, transform, and load data in real-time.
One application to read, transform, and load aggregated data on a daily basis
One application to read, transform, and load aggregated data on a monthly basis

The relevant spark applications can be triggered on a schedule using Apache Airflow.
A.2.5	Database layer
The database layer will consist of multiple Apache Hive and PostgreSQL tables.
Complete data table
This will be a table containing all of the collected data (both historical and from sensors). This table will not contain any aggregated/summarized data. This table can be used by both data visualization tools or connected to and queries by data scientists/analysts to perform detailed analysis. Since this table would contain a large amount of data, and would be rarely queried, it would be appropriate for it to be an Apache Hive table.
Aggregated data tables
There will be several tables containing aggregated data (by location, by time periods etc.). These tables can be queried by data visualization tools to retrieve data for dashboards. Since these tables contain only aggregated data, and will be queried often (where low latency is expected), it would be appropriate for them to be using PostgreSQL.
A.2.6	Data visualization layer
The data visualization layer will be a collection of dashboards which query data from the tables in the Database layer and visualize them in user-friendly format to the end-users. These dashboards can be built using Microsoft’s PowerBI, Google’s Looker Studio or any other business intelligence tool. They can be connected to the underlying data sources through JDBC connectors for Hive and PostgreSQL.
Real time dashboard
This dashboard will present data in real-time from weather sensors across the country, with very little aggregation/summarization options. Monitors can also be configured on this dashboard to trigger alerts when specific thresholds are exceeded.
Long term trends dashboard
This dashboard will mostly consume data from the aggregated data tables in presenting a view of data in a format in which long term trends and patterns can be analyzed.

